if there are two things I can tell you
about YouTube one it's a great tool for
making reading productive if you're
watching this video cast your mind back
to any of the great and important books
you've read in your life and imagine if
you challenge yourself right after
reading the book when it was still fresh
in your mind to make a video summarizing
what it meant to you why it was
important to you why you write it in the
first place and then how it was
different from what you were expecting
or looking for if you'd made videos like
that even if you never went back and
watched the videos again the process of
gathering your thoughts and presenting
them in video format for any of the
important books you've read in your life
would be tremendously meaningful it
would enrich it would enrich the reading
you've done it would make it more
intellectually productive and I think it
is also for those of you who are not
blessed with a photographic memory it is
an aid to your memory then you can also
go back and and watch the video and have
a laugh for me I am blessed and cursed
with a very accurate memory I think it
does make a traumatic experience in my
life
haunt me more and certain kinds of
regrets and remorse and what have you is
more of a burden for me however it is
really bizarre from you right now I'm
going to give one example this is a
constitution of Athens by Aristotle when
I was reading this I could remember
reading the same text and when maybe
when I was 19 years old maybe 20 years
ago when I could remember how my
impressions of it then were different
from my impressions now but but even so
um I stand by what I say you know
gathering your thoughts and putting them
into a video tremendously productive way
to make it make reading productive make
reading of meaningful texts more
meaningful um and then secondly there
were two points there were making
YouTube videos about your your reading
is is so is so productive meaningful
maybe the second one come on no script
no edits Kieran oh oh right that was it
and the second thing I was gonna say is
making YouTube videos but the reading
you're doing definitely makes
unemployment more productive and that's
that's my segue to the next next part of
this video because I mean you you
actually had some anxiety about this
period of unemployment yet which is
understandable
now Melissa
she know who you is I've got my best
girl Melissa here with me off camera you
know Melissa is a goal oriented person
Jay used to be the life forced me to
become more process-oriented
right I mean being process-oriented is
like well I'm learning Chinese I don't
know how much time I've got to put in
Chinese I don't know what the outcomes
are gonna be I don't know if I'm ever
really gonna get flew in this language I
don't think we're gonna use it it's
gonna be part of my job but I've just
got to appreciate the process as an end
in itself right like the learning
process has got to be satisfactory
because I don't know what the outcomes
are gonna be it's hard it does not come
to me naturally and I've had to do that
with so many things I've been engaged
with where I've had to stop being cool
or Jia to become president was the very
goal oriented person and like most
coercion people are many she does kind
of get a sense of self esteem positive
or negative out of those goals or lack
thereof so part of the context for
deciding to get on this you know course
of reading yes yes self education kick
with these ancient Greek and Latin texts
in English translation oh that you know
Melissa was saying to me in effect look
how are we gonna make these these couple
months there's gap in our schedule you
know how we're gonna be productive now I
admit that that's the way I'd phrase it
that's not what that was that was really
the the question in the air was how
we're gonna make this time but everyone
is rebooted and you were feeling lousy
about yourself and I mean you know it's
it's kind of weird but I mean I think
before you started this unique
experience in your life you your
self-esteem would have been higher if
you had a minimum-wage job at Starbucks
as opposed to feeling like you're
unemployed and there's this this gap in
your schedule now I just mentioned the
gap in our schedule is is brief there's
already a video explaining we're about
to go to Paris and telling you guys to
meet us or help invite us to an event
when we're in Paris we're gonna be in
Brussels and then we get back from Paris
and then we have like one month to do
some more reading and learning and then
we're in school so starting in September
we're in classes so we it's a finite gap
of time during which were journals were
employed but yeah YouTube
it's a very different sort of structure
than studying for an exam it's I feel
the shirt is too small let me just be
honest just being honest all right no
but if I don't do a button looks looks
too inviting ooh I need a gold chain
that's right Hey look uh uh it's very
very different from reading a book like
this in order to make a deadline for
University essay reading a book like
this prepping for the answers that are
gonna be an exam you know you're reading
these things for what's meaningful and
what's in what's important in them but
then also I mean Melissa's doing this
very formally she's gathering her
thoughts and putting together
conclusions you know for for a series of
YouTube videos okay now what's really
missing here some of you may be
wondering why didn't I make this video
at the beginning of our of our doing
this reading well one thing we've been
busy that we had nothing to do but you
know it was a really weird scene not
captured on tape that was really
passionate and really emotionally
overwrought where I sat down with
Melissa and I really told her why this
was worth reading you know I made this
very passionate you know speech now
again in terms of context part of this
is the issue of unemployment and Melissa
was kind of feeling down about herself
in terms of her goals what she was doing
at the time and just to mention you guys
also melissa is simultaneously learning
French and before you were learning
Chinese you've taken a pause on Chinese
so she got other things going on
intellectually but still this is nothing
for self-esteem and you know there also
we talk a lot about politics from every
period of history in any given week
there's a lot of talk a lot of stuff so
in part of the context we're sitting
down giving this kind of passionate plea
for the importance of studying ancient
Greek and Roman sources and and it's a
short list I don't mean everything I'll
give you guys the list of what we're
reading and what I recommend you guys
read what I think of as kind of the must
the must read stuff here um part was it
will say to her look the other day we
were talking about politics in 18th
century France it's important yeah kind
of but there's no way I can say to you
like here and now this is a gap in your
education this one you didn't learn at
University of Michigan this is one that
really matters to the rest of your life
you've gotta buckle down and do politics
and philosophy of 18th century France I
don't think that's true at all
you know whatever we probably talked a
little bit about 19th German 19th
century German philosophy we talked
about within that period of time we
talked about the signing of the American
Constitution the debates you know in
that period of American history I had I
had been reading something I may or may
not talk about a little bit in the same
video
I had read this short of a dense book
very thoroughly on the history of the
the English Civil War says 1630 1640s
1650s and in England um you're important
and interesting but none of this has the
the monumental fundamental profound
significance of these ancient Greek and
Latin sources and here's why you know so
news is this very passionate a very
emotionally overwrought speech and for
me I'm someone who comes at this I was
very anti Eurocentric someone who's been
anti euro senator for a variety of
reasons but I think the most obvious
being that the quality of university
education I had was also terrible right
so you come out of the disappointment
with the Western university education
system in my case I made a transition to
being a scholar of Buddhism which
doesn't give you gives you a very
different perspective on the history of
philosophy and politics in the world so
once you're working on Buddhism I did
both ancient and modern you know I did I
did
sorry ancient modern medieval the whole
the whole span but includes questions
like how did Buddhist societies abolish
slavery how did the status of women
women's equality democracy how did those
issues emerge in besides how did
Buddhist societies react to you know the
progress of science you know obviously
very different from how the Catholic
Church react to the progress of science
but still there's a tension between
tradition and modernity there so once
you're into Buddhism and in my case
going right back to the most ancient
period of ancient Buddhist literature
2005 me years ago in the palate language
written in India so all of a sudden the
the the colors on your palate the colors
on your palate as a painter you have a
draw from aren't just you know Greece
Rome France Spain England now you got
India Japan China
well Cambodia Thailand Laos you know
you've got um
is much more diverse and frankly deep
range of world historical cultural and
political experiences to draw from now
you serve but this comes I've had many
videos mentioning the abolition of
slavery and people have seen this face
to face with people and I know what
happens over YouTube
people often stunned when I just start
using examples like Haiti Sri Lanka
Thailand like oh you thought you thought
Texas was the only place of the history
of slavery well you're wrong you know
there's a diverse you know this is part
of the human experience on planet earth
the question of how do you both show
every sorry and also the question of
abolishing abolishing slavery already
comes up in if ancient Greece in Rome in
case you hadn't heard so you know it's
true I mean if Melissa had met me 10
years ago it's hard for me to put a
number on it but you know 10 years ago
15 years ago I used to be more anti
Eurocentric I was much more skeptical
about stating the value the unique value
of these these ancient Greek and Roman
sources sorry 10 years might not be
might not be long enough ago where it
was much more into saying well no this
is just one corpus of ancient text
that's meaningful and when I sat down
and said to Melissa was no you know this
is of unique astoundingly important
significance for about five different
reasons and I maybe can remember two of
them you know in this video now one was
it's only if you get in touch with these
ancient texts that you're really gonna
understand the tragedy of Christendom
you're gonna understand what was lost
and what was destroyed now the culture
of ancient Athens pre-christian Athens
pagan Athens so every we want to put it
was astoundingly productive in terms of
the arts in terms of poetry in terms of
theatre in terms of the rudiments of
science I'm saying the rudiments of
science advisedly but really meaningful
questions in science were being were
being asked and answered and in terms of
the rudiments of politics and I dare say
political science and these things were
linked the way in which the society was
productive and might this is my way of
expressing it I said to Melissa look
Christianity provided people with
comforting certainty something to be
tapped to cling to to have faith in it
provided a blanket of certainty and
if you dared to kind of peel back the
blanket if you if you question those
those publicly and cocaine a certain
ease of course you'd actually be
persecuted yeah I should be punished and
so on you know look at what Avenue
Galileo etc but you know the the it
wasn't forced but this created a culture
of certainty and by contrast I'd say I
mean very few people use this in a
positive sense but I do
Athens was a culture where everyone was
in this state of uncertainty and you see
that even in these these texts like the
Euthyphro these texts from Plato they're
on this list it's like look this
conversation happening in play was not
the deepest conversation
it reflects so many things about this
culture in the way in which people were
always on their toes people were asking
you know what is good what is goodness
what is piety what is religion I mean in
Catholic Europe nobody's asking that in
a sense nobody's allowed to ask that
it's a very limited frequency of
permissible debate and permissible
question the fact that these are people
who were asking how do you calculate the
mass of an object through water
displacement theorem how do you estimate
the size of the earth is the earth a
sphere or is it a drum shaped object or
as a flat you know the questions about
the the stars and the past the pathways
of the the planets in the solar systems
on yeah it's easy to look at that nice
elation these were people had to live
every day with the awareness that they
could be hauled into court and accused
of almost anything there was a deeply
litigious society incredible levels of
backbiting and infighting and
questioning and self questioning and of
course we can see the the harm that does
including that it got Socrates killed I
mean ultimately there's there's a price
in blood for this the vibrancy of the
theater you know in this culture they
embraced having a theater ridicule and
excoriate and criticize public figures
including Socrates and it got Socrates
killed you know so political figures are
being elected and they're being kicked
out of office in very short spans of
time they're they're being you know the
the the decisions made by political
leaders are being debated openly and
questioned openly and people can be
dragged into court because of what they
said in that debate or because of some
business practice or some idea or for
insulting the gods or producing in pious
and nobody really knows there is no
simple Authority like a papal Authority
does it mean to be a godly man or what
does it mean to be a heretic all of its
open for debate all the time everybody's
debating everything all the time and I
mean I think it's kind of dumbed down
with just said told the students oh well
there was a lot of scientific progress
well you know you can say there was a
lot of theatrical progress what does
that mean you know um
this was this was a culture in which
people were coping with a sort of an
overweening omni-directional doubt and
you know the texts we have show just how
you know tremendously stimulating that
was for human intellectual development
and sorry again kind of jumping ahead
the fact that so many of these authors
had just come out of this civil war the
sir I'm calling it a civil war it's a
civil war within Greece but it's the war
between Athens and Sparta so it's not
really a civil war the war between two
two city-states contending a sort of
greco-roman nation or Empire you know uh
sorry I've secret whatever sorry greater
greater Greek area you know some islands
from Italy are included in the map and
so on but look the war between Athens
and Sparta doesn't produce in Athens a
generation of writers who just regard
Sparta as evil of the country almost
every single author we're looking at
including Aristotle who's a generation
later they have this tremendous esteem
and respect for Sparta they're beaten by
the Spartans and they analyze their own
society and say okay what are we doing
wrong you know what of our shortcomings
what are the Spartans doing right
there's this tremendous openness and you
see that but we even see that in
Herodotus with Herodotus looking at the
Persian so the Persians are more foreign
they don't speak Greek they don't
worship the same gods I guess the
support of Spartans don't really there
now a similar religion Alize you know
this is tremendous capacity for
self-reflection self-criticism analysis
of outer cultures and their own culture
and question was drawing and so on so I
just say um this is setting the stage
for why this culture why this Athenian
culture at this moment in history is of
such unique significance is so
tremendously important to study only
when you've appreciate
do you understand why I mean one of the
examples I use few was it's horrifying
to think that Christopher Columbus in
1492 was relying on maps from this
period that fundamentally hadn't changed
since Herodotus he was actually using
specifically the map from Strabo Stra bo
but Strout I've seen strabos work I've
read all of Herodotus Strabo is
basically an updated revision to - yes
anyway you know he was taking this and
presenting this
so whatever approximately 2,000 years
later not to put too fine a number on it
you know there would be no progress in
the sciences there'd be no progress in
geography they'd only been regressed
they've been this terrible terrible
intellectual deadening in Europe due to
the rise of Christian orthodoxy and of
course something similar happened in the
Muslim world where Muslim orthodoxy took
over this is not uniquely Christian but
the two religions have had a lot in
common you know so you only appreciate
that by plunging in these texts and
seeing what was there seeing what was
lost okay so secondly why is this
uniquely significant well you know I
mean democracy something I appreciate
more now than I even appreciated you
know a couple years ago
I mean democracy is produced by really
rare and peculiar cultural circumstances
so I think I've already talked about
this kind of intellectual the
intellectual crosscurrents in Athens
that made it stand out so to rev it and
it meant that Athens not Sparta is still
today this symbol and guiding light for
civilization now again I did all this
scholarship on Buddhism those conditions
or that kind of culture did not arise in
Sri Lanka
you know Sri Lanka had a golden age in
case you guys don't know when they built
technologically they were more
impressive than wrong I mean that
honestly I've been there and seen the
seen the ruins I've seen their minds
they developed you know wonderful anyway
waterworks they had fountains and sewage
systems and they built all kinds of
stuff that was more impressive than Rome
they carved out caverns in the face of
these remarkable cliffs they built
palaces on the tops of
they did all kinds of stuff that's still
you know it's it's in ruins but you can
look at it and go wow you know these
guys really had their act together as a
material culture and civilization but
they remained for all that a crude
despotism a crude despotism based on you
know Buddhists dogmatism rather than
Catholic dogmatism or Muslim dogmatism
so it had some nice aesthetic features
to that reason a little more forgiving
and accepting and you know a little bit
less awful a society many ways but they
never managed to light the same spark
that Athens lit right um
so Amy and I say this again you know
this when I look brief digression in
terms of the progress of my learning at
any one time there's knowing away at me
and awareness of something that's a gap
in my own education so two of the gaps
I've tried to fill just in the last
month or two I really always knew I
didn't know enough about the English
Civil War again 1640s of being the the
central decade and I knew that I'd never
gotten around to reading Cicero on the
Republic a text that's also called on
the Commonwealth by Cicero and when I
read these two books simultaneously I
didn't think there'd be any overlap
between them but it is to my
astonishment that in the middle of this
book the king of England basically
stands in front of a court of inquiry
set up by Parliament and defends his
actions by quoting verbatim the
philosophy of Cicero so I mean this is
another one of those studying things
like you know 1492 Columbus making this
proposal on the basis of Herodotus and
Strabo these ancient texts political
philosophy progressed almost not at all
it only regressed it utterly failed to
progress in more than a thousand years
of Christian Dominion now why is that
I mean people didn't just suddenly get
stupider there's a lot to it but I
should say well you know partly there is
a real sense in which we have to reflect
people got stupider you know what is
intelligence what is it that fosters
intelligence you know I was just reading
Aristotle again appreciate what
Aristotle and Plato have this in common
for both Aristotle and Plato what they
really want is
have a public system of education that's
one of the reasons why they worship the
Spartans even though the Spartans are
their hated enemies supposedly more
because Sparta did have a system of
public education no matter how twisted
and perverse it was it was pretty it was
pretty weird people it was pretty uh
pretty demonic um teach teach children
how to steal keep them starving and
teach them to steal because if they
steal they'll be clever clever but if
they get caught stealing they're whipped
and beaten like that was part of this
part that was part of their formal
system education the being a thief is
clever but getting caught is stupid so
learn your lesson kids this is part of
the formal addition boom but they did
have a system in new Athens did not at
all they just had private tutors and you
know and what-have-you
so you know Athens had a lot of
disadvantages but they nevertheless had
these social conditions that included
the theater and the constant lawsuits
and everyone being called in for jury
duty five hundred and more people you
know three thousand people being on a
jury three thousand people being
convened to debate whether or not we
should go to war oh we have a proposal
for the public budget to do this or that
pull in three thousand people here the
speaker's debate discuss the orders all
these things stimulated really high
levels of intelligence of people and
again I think that's probably cuz
learning is lifelong you know I and not
to boast unduly I'm an example of this
I'm someone who didn't stop learning
when he left University you know to a
massive extent I was stimulate to keep
learning keep growing keep challenging
my assumptions in the same way you can
see say even in the total absence of
formal education Athenians were being
stimulated to really develop in this way
anyway look sorry come back to the the
point was being here and then back to
Athens and then we're out what Cicero
was actually doing was really subverting
democracy he was presenting a totally
insincere argument for why ancient Rome
in the Roman Republic the idealized
Roman Republic had just enough democracy
that it's not a tyranny and you can get
into the details but it's a very
insincere argument now also England
circa 1630 it's a total joke to say that
it has all the best features of
democracy but that's exactly the
argument the King of England made when
by the way he was fighting for his life
he ends up eventually getting executed
it takes a long time several you know
Wars come and go but he ends up
eventually on the chopping block the
king of England but you know he's
arguing that his regime it's not a
democracy but it's a hybrid of monarchy
aristocracy and democracy that is all
the best features of democracy included
right so I mean centuries have gone by
between Socrates and Cicero and many
more centuries go by between Cicero and
and in the king of England but you have
this you know touchstone you have this
standard for you know what democracy
means sorry I have to interrupt myself
again the fundamental point in the
fundamental problem here is a parliament
is not a democracy
really in the history of England this is
a difference we in British history and
colonial history history of a colony
like Canada or the United States
Parliament didn't even pretend to be a
democracy right and today people have
their wires crossed on this fundamental
issue a parliament is not a democracy a
republic is not ma chrissy and again
that's in Cicero and that's in the mouth
of the King of England and so on a
parliament is something very
fundamentally different in its function
and its design its creation it even goes
back to the meaning the word parley
meaning a meeting of war chiefs a
meeting of army generals and their
meeting to discuss raising the taxes for
a war etc this is the the actual
function and creation of British
Parliament what's what is supposed to
serve and the other lesson that the
British public learned from these this
terrible Civil War is that a parliament
can in every way be a tyrant just as
much as as one man there's the pyramid
lumetri tyranny is just as real as the
the tyranny of one man or ten men now
oligarchy or what have you it's not hard
for a parliament to do all the evil
things a great a great tyrant can do but
it's in Athens and it's in Athens only
it didn't it didn't happen in Japan but
a lot of things independently average
betters mentioned Japan is a totally
separate Japan invented the stock market
independently you know the Japanese and
the Dutch completely separately invented
this idea of buying futures on the stock
okay no connection you know what I mean
um I'm told I don't even know if this is
true but in India they completely
separately invented quite a long list of
technological innovations including you
know a breaking white light into colored
light through a rock crystal steel
smelting you know creating steel there's
quite a list of things human beings in
different continents at different times
managed to invent independently right by
including written language and many
fundamental things like that but
democracy really has a mano Genesis it
has one origin it has one origin and
it's delicate and it doesn't last and
it's so intellectually vital and
artistically vital and product and it's
so self-critical almost all the sources
we have sorry including Aristotle
including Thucydides including the
zeniff on almost all of them are living
in this unique moment when Demark the
ball gets rolling for democracy under
the harshest critics of it you haven't
guarded as if so bullet hasn't gotten
through cities through cities is rough
on democracy and and he lived through
that war right he lived through that war
he saw what a joke tomorrow one of his
facilities one of the fundamental
reasons he hates democracy is he says
it's starting new wars all the time if
you leave it in the hands of the public
you just have a meeting where they all
get whooped up they all get to vote on
war they're gonna go to war every time
or you know they're always gonna want to
raise the war budget so that was that
was part of his reason for me
fundamentally opposed opposed to
democracy but yeah when you when you
understand and appreciate that these are
the these are the contrasts real quick
the contrast between ancient Athens and
the Dark Ages of Europe the Dark Ages of
person um that come thereafter the
contrast from ancient Athens and Sparta
that's just next door and there's other
interesting contrast between Athens and
Egypt from Athens and Persia but above
all else the really instructive contrast
between Athens and Sparta where the
Athenians are examining their own
society they're examining Spartan
society they're asking what is freedom
what is democracy what is it what is the
meaning of empire as another thing being
being debated you know what is what is
justice even mean if your kingdom is
built if your polity your political
system is built on conquering and
looting and
robbing other people and and piracy and
what-have-you we talk about justice but
at the same time we call people heroes
when they carry out you know piratical
looting and raids and sometimes rape and
murder and so on - you know these these
these fundamental questions being asked
and then you know skipping had many more
centuries the contrast between democracy
democracy in the strictest sense and
Parliament Parliament is not democracy
between democracy and a republic whether
it's the Republic of Cicero or the
Republic of the United States of America
and of course you can say more easily
that contrast between democracy and
monarchy today not that not that many
people are saying hey you know what you
know what would you do to improve
Canadian politics we could learn a thing
or two from Saudi Arabia you know maybe
we can learn something from Switzerland
may we go under something from Denmark
nobody's looking to imitate the
political Arrangements in the world's
few monarchies neither Saudi Arabia nor
nor the United Kingdom but these are
profoundly important profoundly
meaningful contrasts that still really
matter today and where I rely to say to
Melissa look I absolutely believe this
may be the last chance in your life you
got a couple months we're gonna be in
school
take these couple of months and pour
your energy into getting a foundation in
these two extra nation Greece and Rome
they're gonna matter for you for the
rest of your life and something else
that I said spontaneously in that
conversation I said the more you read
about politics
the more you realize that everyone who
ever mattered in the history of the
world read these same texts now of
course you can put in a caveat there you
know this is a Eurocentric statement
but still even as soon as these texts
are translated into Japanese everyone in
Japan read them I'm sorry I've done
research on exactly that even Thomas
More's utopia was translated Japanese
and read Japan I've done some some
research on that these things did
influence you know Chinese communism Mao
Zedong was inspired by ancient Sparta
believe it or not all this stuff did
cross continents as soon as the the link
was made through through through
translation but you know whether it's
Henry the eighth or Bill Clinton all
these people you know went to these
texts as a touchstone and you know what
they learned from them good bad or
otherwise I mean different people take
different lessons from Plato and Plato
is in some ways a fascist and greats a
basis for it to outright fascist state
but on the other hand Plato can very
inspiring for an examination of
democracy and and what have you so I
mean you know yeah my final statement on
this to to Melissa was as meaningful as
all this other [ __ ] maybe you know
reading about the Korean a Jewboys
people were both into it I mean if I
said to Melissa hey let's take this and
really learn first nation's politics
history I'm sure you know reading a bone
ancient Buddhism and Buddhist
philosophies interesting I could do that
or even China you actually have most of
herself she bought a couple books you
may have seen them in the background but
actually on the history of politics
she's also was living with me in China
and we talked a lot about history of
China it's okay I mean you could have
taken this time and put it into you know
communism in China or 19th and 20th
century recent history of China or
something that's important that's
fascinating but I've got to tell you
this unique legacy and heritage from
Greece and Rome it is actually more
important and that's a conclusion I
didn't come to easily or lightly and I
didn't come to it when I was 19 years
old and first reading this so guys we
close this video with the actual reading
list for the particular tax from ancient
Greece Greece in Rome and the exact
order in which we're reading them sorry
this is the order I created for Melissa
to read and you can imagine it's going
through my head I'm doing this maybe one
day I'll do this for my own daughter or
my own hypothetical son at the moment I
only have a daughter oh my one kid but
you know but you know maybe someone else
in the next generation I'll do this for
I'll sit down and talk this through so
remarkably number one on the list is
pseudo Xenophon and again this is
because I think the best way if you're
new in this field to approach this is to
understand the political contrast
between Sparta and Athens so starting
with an understanding that the the
political and legal and cultural context
for how what is the difference we
inspired in Athens that's being
meditated on every point so soon as
elefante on the constitution of the
spartans pardon me suitors NFR on the
constitution of the Athenians then real
Xenophon Xenophon on the constitution of
the spartans right so there's a two
short tax the directly contrast
political and cultural conditions in
Sparta and in Athens then three texts
from Plato Plato's Euthyphro Plato's
credo
and Plato's apology so really brief
gloss for me the Euthyphro really shows
you so much about the politics of Athens
again the fact that these questions can
be asked you know the the the sorry that
the the religious and political
underpinnings for this conversation
what's unstated what's implicit is just
as important in what stated but what's
explicit here it is showing you the
sense in which Socrates is indeed guilty
the sense in which surface really is a
heretic in which from an Athenian
perspective he does deserve to die it is
in his trial which is coming up in the
Credo and the apology now the necessary
contrast to Plato's apology is to get
back to Xenophon and read Xenophon's
apology so sorry for those you don't
know apology apology is a code word here
this is actually but the trial and
execution of Socrates okay and then next
after that a big book on the list is
through city's lucidity 'he's the author
is the table look so guys you've seen
this particular book on camera before
this is not the complete text of
facilities history of the Peloponnesian
War but this is actually the text I
recommend I do now own a copy of the
landmark Thucydides which is the the
whole unexpected attacks with a bunch of
extra maps and added stuff and at this
time I really do not endorse it I could
do a later a later video talking about
that but this version of Thucydides it's
not that long it's not going to take you
that long to get through so in case
you're intimidated by Thucydides I
really recommend that particular
addition Paul Woodruff is the name as
the translator interpreter etc I in my
opinion it's an excellence you know the
selection from from the source texts
okay and then finally on this short list
Aristotle the politics and aerosols
politics would be excerpts for me I
think probably even before that I think
number one from our stone would actually
be the political portions of ethics but
by Aristotle there's only a couple pages
it's like five pages but there are five
really important pages five or ten
really report pledges then excerpts from
the politics I don't think anyone needs
to read the whole of Aristotle's
politics it's my opinion maybe I'll feel
differently about it when I come back
and pick figure
I haven't read this for 20 years or
something and then Aristotle's
constitution of athens aka the Athenian
Constitution tremendously important not
that long
it's a pretty it's a pretty short it's a
pretty short to-do list people mmm
you know obviously you could throw in
Herodotus you could throw in a number of
other texts but I think exactly for the
political fundamentals I'm talking about
here doesn't involve the mythology
doesn't involve Helena Troy duh thanks
here you're you're leaving out you don't
need to know this is getting to the core
of what's so meaningful what's so
important about the legacy of Athens in
Rome for all of us today